24/01/27

I've been noticing something kinda strange recently. I don't want there to be anything that could remind someone that they're playing a video game. This makes sense with horror since something can't be scary unless it's somewhat believable, but that seems to contradict the retro-digital aesthetic I'm going for and it's just kinda strange. And even stranger, I'm not fine with bugs but I'm fine with bits of lag. I want an overall smooth fps, but I think I also kinda want there to be lag spikes / framerate drops. I don't understand the theory here but at least I can perfect the practice. I think it might just be that I want to create juxtaposition, which I guess would make sense.

I just added the mod Fence on Slab, which might seem kinda strange at first, but I like the idea of giving a sense of wonder and amazement when you see that some blocks can be placed off-grid but still be kinda on the grid at the same time.

24/01/26

The modpack is fully public now, and suddenly I making a ton of changes. I've been pretty loose with a lot opf stuff since this has just been a personal project for so long, but now that this is public I want to make sure that it's fully presentable. I've overhauled many parts of the shader, edited the mods list, polished up the repo, started a changelog and todo, and probably more. It only has 7 downloads right now but I'm hoping to increase that.

Also, I've been looking at this shader so much that it looks completely normal. The fog even makes the sky look like it has a bloom effect applied and it looks beautiful but not in any way that I want (2025-01-26_22.12.10).

I've just discovered an interesting challenge, what should the sky color be like? It seems like I've had it be really desaturated and depressing, but now that I'm looking at out in an empty field I feel like it's too depressing. I've made it a bit more saturation and now it feels better and is more believable, but that only kinda aligns with my goals (which are terror and fun). I'm really not sure what sky color helps achieve these goals the best.

24/01/25

Alright well I've created a Modrinth page for this modpack two days ago but it's still in the review stage. I still had to make a lot of changes to the mods list because of copyright but I think it's about to be approved. Also, I've decided to (sort of) go fully open source with this modpack. I'm keeping all rights reserved, but I'm definitely open to suggestions from people

24/01/23

Well, I've just watched another video of a horror modpack and I'm getting tired people not liking mine, so I'm finally going to start working on publishing mine online. I don't think I can do it on curseforge since there's a lot of custom stuff, but I think that maybe modrinth will allow it. If not then I'm really not sure what to do

24/01/13

I've been working on this on-and-off since at least 22/07/09, but I'm starting this devlog now because I think it's important to list the thought behind my decisions so that I don't undo something without realizing the impact of what I've done.

The most important realization I've had recently is just the distinction between horror and terror (for the sake of this project). Horror is the knowledge that something extremely dangerous is nearby and terror is the expectation that something extremely dangerous is nearby. I've always said that this is a horror modpack, but now I realize that it's mainly a terror modpack. I think I've been going back and forth focusing on the horror elements and the terror elements without realizing it, but I definitely want to keep this distinction in mind from now on (which is a big reason why I'm writing this down).

The biggest issue this terror/horror mismatch has created recently is the night-time brightness levels. I used to have no shadowlight at all during the night (because that increased terror), but then I changed it to be bright enough to be just slightly visible at night (because that increased the horror), but now I'm thinking that I can and probably should use both approaches to get the best of both worlds (no shadowlight when there's blocklight, and slight shadowlight when there's not)
